In this video, let us look at the functions of string class.
In the previous video.
Already, I have shown you how to create the object.
Now let us see.
There are built in functions of this class.
Let us look at them.
Here I have a few basic functions of string class.
We will see more functions after this.
The first one is land.
This will find out the length of a string.
So how to call this function?
I will create an object of string class here.
String.
That's one.
Now here I will give the word.
Hello.
Now there's a strain for calling the function, I have to say, as dot length.
This will find out the length of this string only.
So the functions are called upon the object because they are members.
So you have to use dot operator for calling the member functions.
Suppose I have one more string.
I will create one more string here as to.
And suppose this a string is world.
Then for finding the length of this one, I can call the function as to what length this will be calling
function upon this object.
See, depending on the object, the function will be called.
This function will find out the length of S1 and this function will find out the length of S2.
So the benefit of object orientation is we can call the functions upon the object itself.
They are inside the object.
So it means this S1 is having a string.
Hello, as well as the various functions like length and all these functions that are given here.
All these functions are present here.
So we can simply call those function upon the same object.
So let us come back to the functions.
This is for finding length of a strain.
Now, if I take this example and draw an array.
Let us take another inside.
This.
This halo is written like this.
Hello.
Terminated by the character.
Right now, if you call this length, it will give the length of a string that is five.
So total five alphabets are there in.
This is string.
Now let us go to the next function size.
This is also a same thing.
See, even you can call length or you can call size.
So whatever.
First come to your mind, you can use it, right?
Both have same meaning.
That is the same work.
So that you call it a size or you call length.
They are seen.
Now this capacity, this function is different, right?
This we have finished capacity.
This gives the capacity of a string, as I have already explained in the previous video, that it will
not create an array exactly of this string size.
It will create a bigger size, a little bigger size array.
Usually it may be 15 or 16, so it depends on the compiler, whatever the size may be.
So it will give the capacity of this string.
So how many more characters you can add?
You can know about this one, no doubt.
If you give a bigger string or larger string, it will increase the capacity and also length of a string.
Right.
It is dynamic.
It will be changing its size.
But right now, whatever is the capacity, you can know the capacity.
And if you want to increase the capacity, you can call resize function, you can mention the size and
you can change the capacity.
So this will be changed.
Capacity will be changed.
Now let us look at these functions quickly, maximum size.
So depending on the compiler, this gives the what is the possible maximum size a string you can have
in this compiler.
This may vary from compiler to compiler.
So this will give you the maximum possible size like 1000 characters or 10,000 or lacs of characters.
How many characters are allowed?
You can know the size.
This will clear the contents of testing.
This will find out whether a string is empty or not.
Let us try all these functions and check them.
So, Len size, capacity.
Size, max size.
Clear and empty.
I'll give you a demo on this one here in this program already I have a string object created, so let
us call struct length.
Right now, I will directly see out this one so that we can see the result.
And then let us run this and see.
Yes, it is five.
And then also I am printing a string.
So length here is five.
Now I will change this function.
I'll remove this and I'll call another function.
Dot see the moment I am pressing dot it is showing all the functions that are present inside this string
class.
So it depends on your ID that you're using.
It may pop up the list of functions.
Depends on the ID.
I'm using x code.
So now I will call a function that is size.
Let us run this.
So here I got the size of a string.
Now let us go back to that land function.
Here I.
I'll give a string that is bigger.
Welcome.
Yes.
Lent is seven.
Now I'll give the size as.
Nothing.
No string at all.
So size is zero.
There is nothing.
I'll try this one now.
Peter.
Another pointer?
No.
It's a letter that is recorded.
It is here it is trying to find the length, but the string is null so it's causing an error.
So null pointer it will not work, so make sure that the string is null or not.
Now let us take the string back to hell.
Now I'll show you other functions.
I'll call the function capacity.
Let see when I say hello.
The size was five or length was five.
Let us see what is the capacity?
So here it is giving capacity.
That is 22.
So as I said, the capacity will be bigger than the length of string and whatever the capacity that
depends on the compiler or that depends on the implementation of this class that is string class inside
the compiler.
So check it on your machine, what capacity you are getting.
Now I will call one more function.
Resize and I'll give the size as 50 and here I should give the size struct resize and I'll give the
capacity that is as 50.
Then here.
I will display directly capacity.
Right.
So I have changed the capacity of Austin to 50.
Let us run it so it may take 50 or more, 50 or so.
So it has taken more than 50.
Yes.
It will make sure that the capacity is 50 or more than 50.
Right now, I will call one more function and I'll show you.
We have seen this one max size.
Right.
So.
But that score.
So here it will tell you what is the maximum possible size of a string that you can have in this compiler.
Oh, such a big string.
So these many characters you can have in this string.
So this is thing supports up to these many characters.
So it can accommodate very big size of string.
So a lot of contents that you can add as a string object.
So let's set.
So I have two more functions to show.
I will say steer clear.
Let us see after clearing.
I'm printing this one.
So what happens?
Let us see.
Nothing is printed, string is cleared.
Now I will try to see out length of a string after clearing it.
Right.
Length zero strings cleared once it has become an empty string.
Now one more function.
I will check whether the string is empty or not.
So struct empty.
If this function is called, it will return true.
If string is empty.
So I will say see out it is empty.
And then else I will see.
String is.
Whatever this thing is.
Still, I will print this one.
Right.
So here, instead of saying it as empty, I will say string is empty.
Now let us run this right now.
You can see that the string is empty.
Right.
So you've got a message that is string is empty and I will type.
Hello here and run.
Now string is hello.
So it is giving this a string.
Now string is not empty.
This function returns false.
So that's all in this video.
And the next video I will show you other functions of string class.
So you check these functions on your computer.
Then after looking at the functions, I will give you some exercises or practice programs.